                 GUIDE LINES FOR CONTRIBUTING TO DEBIAN TEX
                 =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-


If you want to contribute a package to Debian TeX, then this file detials the
steps required to allow it to fit easily into distribution. The source for the
distribution is located in the directory,

   /usr/src/tex

All TeX related macro files are kept in subdirectories of

   /usr/src/tex/texinputs

and all METAFONT macro files are kept in subdirectories of

   /usr/src/tex/mfinputs

If your contribution is a driver for a printer etc. then it can be given a
directory of its own in the main source directory. If this is not clear then
get the source packages for Debian TeX and take a look.

If your contribution only requires that a few parameters need changing so that
the Debian TeX directory structure is followed then, you must provide a copy of
the original file with an extra extension .orig ,on the other hand if you have
made major changes to a package (like getting a console driver to use the
svgalibs or patching a printer driver so it can use the kpathsea library) then
providing copies of the original files will not be required (you might also
consider releasing it to the wider TeX community).

You have set everything up it compiles and there are no bugs and it uses the TeX
directory structure outlined below, what do you need to do next? Well you need
to provide a piece of a Makefile with two targets, one for installing your
package, and one for cleaning all the files required for a rebuild, and call it
MakeScrap. You also need to write an easy to follow discription of how to setup
your contribution if this is relevant for your contribution.

Once you have done all that tar and gzip your contribution up (please NO
binaries) and upload it to: 
 
    sunsite.unc.edu::/pub/Linux/distributions/debian/Incoming

and send mail to imurdock@sunsite.unc.edu telling him that you have uploaded a
contribution for Debian TeX, also mail me phyjab1@caledonia.hw.ac.uk telling
me that you have uploaded the package as well. If all goes well it will be
included in the next release.

JAB.


                        Debian TeX Directory Structure
                        ------------------------------

 The is the directory structure for Debain TeX, your contribution must follow
this or it will be rejected (it won't work if doesn't either).

 /usr/bin                                   ALL binaries in here

 /usr/local/lib/texmf/fonts/pk/CanonCX      This is the default directory
                                            for pk files, use this for your
                                            compiled in default, Your driver
                                            must be able to do subdirectory
                                            searching otherwise it will not be
                                            able to find any of the fonts.

 /usr/lib/texmf                             This is where TeX is 'rooted'

 /usr/lib/texmf/ini                         This holds all the format, base
                                            and pool files of TeX and METAFONT,
                                            if you contibution has a startup
                                            file (eg. its online help file)
                                            this is where it should go.

 /usr/lib/texmf/tex                         This holds all the various macro
                                            files for TeX and there friends.
                                            They are held in sub-directories of
                                            this, so if you are contributing a
                                            macro package please put in a
                                            subdirectory (if its only one or two
                                            files use the directory ./misc) of
                                            its own.

 /usr/lib/texmf/dvips                       This directory holds the PostScript
                                            prologs for dvips, as well as its
                                            configuration file.

 /usr/lib/texmf/bibtex                      This is the main directory for
                                            BibTeX.

 /usr/lib/texmf/bibtex/bib                  BibTeX's .bib files go in here

 /usr/lib/texmf/bibtex/bst                  BibTeX's .bst files go in here

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts                       This is the 'root' of the font
                                            directory structure.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/metafont              This is where we split for METAFONT,
                                            fonts.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/metafont/tfm          .tfm files for METAFONT fonts.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/metafont/vf           .vf files for METAFONT fonts.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/metafont/src          The source for the various METAFONT
                                            fonts are kept in there own sub-
                                            directories of this one.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/postscript            This is where we split for the
                                            PostScript fonts used by TeX.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/postscript/tfm        .tfm files for PostScript fonts.

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/postscript/vf         .vf files for PostScript fonts

 /usr/lib/texmf/fonts/postscript/src        Source for PostScript fonts used by
                                            TeX. As TeX is not the only program
                                            to use PostScript fonts (Ghostscript
                                            and X11 amoung others do as well).
                                            These may well be symbolic links
                                            to else where.

